In this video we'll learn about some of the features that can be provided with this fair standard and
for distributed virtual switches and some of these features are unique to the distributed switch only.
So with these fair there's two different types of virtual switches.
The standard virtual switch comes with all licensing additions and it has a basic feature set where
as the VSE for a distributed switch has an enhanced feature set and is only available with the Enterprise
plus licensing addition.
So I'd differentiate between the two as we go through all of these features and learn about them.
And the first feature that we're going to talk about here is discovery protocols either CTP or LDP CTP
stands for Cisco discovery protocol and LDP stands for link layer discovery protocol and these are useful
features that have been around for a long time on physical networking hardware.
What these discovery protocols are used for is to learn information about other networked devices that
are connected like for example in our little diagram here.
Assume that this ESX I host has a nice first Daynard switch.
So we've got the first standard switch configured on the ESX host and that vees first standard switch
has some physical connections to a Cisco switch or a physical switch.
We can configure Cisco discovery protocol to allow it to discover some of the characteristics of the
physical switches cell.
We're going to allow it to learn information about the physical switch things like the IP address of
the switch.
Things like which physical adapter is connected to what physical switch port.
Right.
So VM neck zero is connected to you know a physical switch port 0 1.
VM Nick one is connected to switch port 0 slash to right and that can help us to make sure that we don't
accidentally unplug the wrong cable.
So that's CTP Cisco discovery protocol.
And that is a Cisco specific discovery protocol that is available on of these very standard switch LDP
is basically the exact same thing except for it's not a Cisco specific technology right.
LDP stands for link layer discovery protocol and it's only supported on the vees for distributed switch.
But it does basically the exact same thing.
It just allows you to discover information about the other devices on the network
when we're using a VSE fair distributed switch.
We can create traffic marking and traffic filtering policies.
So for example we could create a filtering policy for some incoming traffic from a certain IP address
range or a certain TCAP port.
And when that traffic hits the vees for distributed switch the Vee's for distributed which will take
the specified action maybe dropping the packet or we could even have it take certain actions like assigning
a class of service or DCP tags to provide quality of service on outgoing traffic.
So as this traffic is leaving the virtual switch and heading to the physical network we can set up a
policy in the Vee's for a distributed switch to create these class of service or quality of service
tags.
And then as that traffic hits the physical network it will actually respect the quality of service values
that we've appended.
So that's traffic filtering and tagging is basically an access list and the virtual switch that can
drop or accept certain types of traffic or can apply quality of service values.
Then again in this course we cover this at a very basic level.
I just want you to be familiar with the features that are available.
We don't really get into how to configure a lot of these features or a lot of the very detailed specifics
about how these features operate.
We just want you to be aware of the features that are available and what they do.
So another good feature is network health check.
Again this is something that's supported only on the VSE for distributed switch.
And basically here's what network health check does.
You can run a network health check in the Vee's for a web client and what it will do is it will compare
the configuration of your vse fair distributed switch like really critical configuration items like
with the MT You are what's the next teaming method or the veel and configuration and it'll compare those
configurations to how the physical switches configured.
And tell you if there are inconsistencies that you can easily identify and fix.
So that's the purpose of network health check is to validate the configuration of the fair distributed
switch against the configuration of a physical switch.
NET flow is a nother feature that's only supported on a VSE fair distributed switch.
What it basically does is it tracks all of the traffic that's going on in your environment and it sends
reports to a centralized server.
It's kind of like a kid that tells all his friends and the collector is like the mom that he's telling
them with.
Right.
So for example let's say that you know we have a virtual machine that sends some traffic to an e-mail
server.
Right.
Well what will happen with net flow is the virtual switch will actually track that traffic and it'll
send a little report to this net flow collector saying hey you know $10 $1.1 11 just talked to this
e-mail server over port 80 and here's how much traffic it sent.
And this allows the net flow collector Whether it's like what's up gold or solar winds or any of those
options.
It allows the net flow collector to build up a detailed historical record of all the traffic that's
occurring on this network so that if you need to do forensic analysis or figure out you know the traffic
patterns over time or maybe have an issue that occurred like one o'clock people said everything was
slow all night and go into that flow collector and look at what was happening at one o'clock and you'll
have a nice historical record of all of the traffic occurring.
And that's the purpose of net flow.
Again this is something that's been around forever in the physical network and the VSE for distributed
switch can be configured Fearnot flow and can send these reports to an outflow collector
and the last feature we're going to talk about here is Port mirroring.
So port mirroring can be used to send a copy of all the traffic on one port to another port.
So for example let's say that this traffic is flowing in and it's destined for one of these virtual
machines where we can set up a port mirroring session to say any traffic for this particular port should
also be mirrored to this other port.
So maybe what I want to do is put a sniffer or put you know wireshark or something running on this second
port so that I can monitor all the traffic that's actually hitting the first port.
That's what port mirroring is used for.
And there's all sorts of different port mirroring session types that you can set up.
Again we do more in the other vse for our courses we kind of get a little deeper on those things for
the purposes of the VM We're certified associate what you need to know is Portmeirion is a way to take
all of the traffic that's occurring on one port and send an identical copy of that traffic to some destination
usually another port on a distributed switch.
OK so let's take a moment to review in this lesson we learned about Cisco discovery protocol and blinkered
discovery protocol and how they can be used to discover information about other network devices.
We learned about net flow and how it can be used to send historical traffic records to a centralized
collector so that we can analyze historical traffic patterns and do things like forensic analysis or
determine the root cause of intermittent performance issues.
We learned how traffic filtering and marking can be used on the VSE for distributed switch to do things
like drop certain types of traffic or apply quality of service tags to certain types of traffic and
we learn how port mirin can be used to take traffic that's occurring on one port and send a mirrored
copy of it to another port.